---
title: "Features"
date: 2021-03-28T11:06:52+05:30
draft: false
weight: 1
---

### Overview
[Mutant](https://github.com/gaurav-gogia/mutant) is an open-source, cross-platform, compiled, garbage collected, encrypted programming language that wants to make secure programming and security research more accessible.

The language is loosly typed and it does not require defining specific data types while creating variables.

While semi-colons `;` are not required strictly to use the language, it is recommended that they are used in order to avoid unusual errors in code.

#### Security
The language supports both compile time and run-time security through encryption & hashing. This is achieved by encrypting generated bytcode at complete bytecode and at instruction level. This ensures that compiled program runs only after a certain number of checks

The language also adds a header and a footer in the generated compiled file with the bytecode to identify the file with magic strings rather than relying on file extensions. The language also verifies hashes of encrypted and decrypted code to ensure that it has not been tampered with before running it

#### REPL
Language has support for a basic REPL for testing out the capabilities. It is a powered down version of the full language and is only intended to test basic features of the language

#### VM
Language makes use of a virtual machine, known as "Mutant Virtual Machine" or MVM. This virtual machine makes sure that your program runs in **YOUR** machine. It has been tested on Linux, macOS, & Windows. Although, it should also work on Android, FreeBSD and essentially any platform/architecture that is supported natively by [Go Programming Language](https://golang.org).

#### Unicode Support
The language supports emojis, glyphs and other non ASCII characters making it truly multi-lingual. Future versions will include support for multi-lingual syntax so that programming is not restricted to just ASCII based written languages